Now in this brand new action.yml file
we start by adding another name.
So this field is the same as before
for the composite action.
And here the name could be 'deploy to AWS S3'
because that's what this action will do.
It will deploy the website files to that service
so that we actually have a life website in the internet
and we add a description where we could say,
'Deploy a static website via AWS S3.'
Now the next step is to again add the runs key
as we also did it for the composite action.
There we also added runs.
We're also adding it here for the JavaScript action.
And we also added the using key
but this is now not set to composite, but instead to node
and then one of the main versions of node.
At the point of time I'm recording this node16
is the version that should be used here,
as always the official documentation is the place to go
to learn about the latest version you should set
or in general about the versions that are supported.
At the point of time I'm recording this
I could set it to node12 or 16
but this might change when you are viewing this.
The code will still work though.
So in my case here it's node16 and this tells,
get up actions that this is a custom JavaScript action
because we're using the node runtime
which is a JavaScript runtime.
Now, as soon as you're using a JavaScript action
you also have to add a main field here.
And that's now of course different
from the composite action where we instead added steps.
Now we're adding main instead.
And as a value for main, we specified the name of the file
that should be executed for this custom action.
And in my case here, I'll add a new file
called main.js though that name is up to you.
It does not have to be main, but here I'll name it main.js.
And in the action.yml file for this main field
we now specify that file name or that path to that file.
In this case, the file is in the same folder
as the action.yml file, hence just the file name suffices.
So the file name is all we need.
So we add the file name like this here,
and this is the bare minimum we need
to define a custom JavaScript action.
And what GitHub Actions will do then is it will execute
that main.js file and therefore execute all the logic
that might be in that file whenever this custom action
is used in a Workflow step.
Now there are more fields you could add.
For example, all the pre and post next to main.
And this would allow you to point
at extra JavaScript files that should be executed before
or after this main JavaScript file executed.
In some situations, you might need to perform extra setup
or clean up work, and in those cases
pre and post can be useful.
Here for this example
we don't need any extra scripts to be executed
before or after this main script
and therefore this main script is all I need here.
And with that, we can now start writing some logic here.